What is Scrum

Scrum is a project management system, it offers significant improvement over conventional project management. 

Typically project management involves
	• Estimating the entire project timelines in a single go, it brings in ineffeciency in planning phase. Morever the team members actually responsible for delivery of a project are not consulted which could also lead to planning fallacy i.e. underestimating project timelines. 
	• Additionally, all the effort in detailed up front planning means any subsequent changes to the plan are resisted and project team is left with a rigid plan

Scrum solves for above issues, this is because planning is done in small phases throughout the project with team members who're actually responsible for the delivery of a project. Overall the philosophy of a scrum project is basically having a team of somewhere between 3 to 9 team members, who do the planning and excute project in short sprints with the goal of demoing and getting feedback from customer or client by end of each sprint.

A scrum project involves following 7 steps
	1. Prepare a backlog of all the items in a story format, every backlog item should be written so as to answer
		a. Who needs this feature?
		b. What do they need?
		c. Why do they need it?
	Also, assign a priority order to each of these backlog items depend on impact/revenue etc.
	
	2. Estimate relatively: Do not assign hours to tasks, instead assign time in relative terms. A suggested approach is to assign a fibonacci number to the hardest (most time consuming task) ans use it as a benchmark to assign time to other tasks
	
	3. Execute a project in sprints: Each sprint should be 2-4 weeks long (not longer than a month) with the goal of having a demo at the end of each sprint
	
	4. Make your work visible, have a scrum story board and spit tasks in 3 categories:
		a. Do
		b. Doing
		c. Done
	5. A 15 minute daily Scrum call to discuss
		a. What did we do yesterday
		b. What do we plan to do today
		c. What are the obstacles we're facing
	6. By the end of each sprint have a MVP (Minimum Viable Products) to be demoed to customers, idea is to collect feedback early and work on it
	7. After the end of each spring have a team meeting to discuss
		a. What went well
		b. What didn't go well
		c. Any improvements

Having above approach to project planning improves the outcome in both quality and efficiency by incorporating feedback early on and making best use of time
